# Airbnb MaxScale

Airbnb MaxScale is a fork of MariaDB's MaxScale 1.3. The motivation for the project is a database proxy with connection pooling such that we can remove MySQL database connections limitation. Airbnb MaxScale had been delpoyed in production since early 2016, and it is currently powering all core MySQL databases used by the Airbnb web application.

The original MariaDB MaxScale README file is here.

## Airbnb Features

We have implemented connection pooling and other interesting features.

### Conntion Pooling

MaxScale is an intelligent router between applications and MySQL servers. In MaxScale, the connection management model is an one-to-one connection linkage between a client connection and backend connection.In Airbnb Maxscale, connection pooling is implemented by multiplexing N client connections over a fixed numner of M connections to a backend MySQL server, where N can be significantly larger than M. After a client connection request completes successful authentication with a backend MySQL server, Airbnb MaxScale severs the link between the backend connection and client connection and parks it in a connection pool of the backend server. The server connection pool size is configurable, and is typically a small number. When receiving a query on a client connection, MaxScale picks a backend connection in the pool, links it with the client connection, and forwards the query to the backend MySQL server. MaxScale understands the transaction context of a client session and therefore it knows to keep the linked backend connection until transaction commits. The link must be kept and used for forwarding query result back to the client.

### Requests Throtting

The typical server connection pool size is configured to 10 in our production. With many instances of Airbnb MaxScale proxy servers, the number of database connections on a MySQL server is several hundreds. In normal situation, only a small portion of connections are active in use. When underlying storage outage happens or a bad expensive query hits the fan, query execution become slow and it will be noticeable that server connection pool runs out on each MaxScale proxy server instance. We take the symptom as a signal that the backend MySQL server may run into the concurrent threads running spike problem, and proactively throttle client requests by killing client connections. In production, the request throttling had been proven very useful in preventing database incidents due to transient storage system outage.

### Blacklist Query Rejection

MaxScale uses an embedded MySQL parser for query routing. It builds a parse tree for every MySQL query in its query classifier module. Airbnb MaxScale leverages the query parse tree for bad query blacklisting. The motivation for this feature was a Ruby VM heap memory corruption in our production environment. Because of the memory corruption, MySQL query statement generated by Rails ActiveRecord could be corrupted in such way that its conditional predicate was completely removed. For instance, one corrupted query that we were lucky to catch before it making permanent damage in production was a delete statement with `where 0 = 0`. This had put our production databases in the danger of humongous corruption. This blog post has a detailed explanation of the nasty Ruby heap corruption problem. Airbnb MaxScale looks for existence of malformed equality conditions in update and delete statements by inspecting the predicate in the query parse tree, and reject them flatly.

### Monitoring

Airbnb MaxScale implements minutely internal metrics collection and exposes them for real time monitoring. A new `stats` command is added in MaxAdmin tool. External stats agent can be created to pull stats from a running MaxScale server periodically.

## Build

Airbnb MaxScale was forked off MaxScale 1.3 development branch. All Airbnb features are in branch `connection_proxy`.

Before building Airbnb MaxScale, make sure you have all prerequisite installed in the build machine. For the sake of example, I have Airbnb Maxscale source in `/srv/dbproxy/MaxScale`, and I have dependency libraries installed in `/srv/dbproxy` as well.

---
mkdir release_maxscale
cd release_maxscale
cmake /srv/dbproxy/MaxScale -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=RelWithDebugInfo -DMYSQL_DIR=/srv/dbproxy/mariadb-10.0.20-linux-x86_64/include/mysql -DEMBEDDED_LIB=/srv/dbproxy/mariadb-10.0.20-linux-x86_64/lib/libmysqld.so -DMYSQLCLIENT_LIBRARIES=/srv/dbproxy/mariadb-10.0.20-linux-x86_64/lib/libmysqlclient.so -DERRMSG=/srv/dbproxy/mariadb-10.0.20-linux-x86_64/share/english/errmsg.sys -DBUILD_TESTS=Y -DWITH_SCRIPTS=Y -DPACKAGE=Y -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/srv/dbproxy
make
make package
---

For debug build, it is slightly different.

---
mkdir debug_maxscale
cd debug_maxscale
cmake /srv/dbproxy/src -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug -DMYSQL_DIR=/srv/dbproxy/mariadb-10.0.20-linux-x86_64/include/mysql -DEMBEDDED_LIB=/srv/dbproxy/mariadb-10.0.20-linux-x86_64/lib/libmysqld.so -DMYSQLCLIENT_LIBRARIES=/srv/dbproxy/mariadb-10.0.20-linux-x86_64/lib/libmysqlclient.so -DERRMSG=/srv/dbproxy/mariadb-10.0.20-linux-x86_64/share/english/errmsg.sys -DBUILD_TESTS=Y -DWITH_SCRIPTS=N -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=$HOME/debug_maxscale
make
make install
---
